This file describes how to install the Secure Shell (ssh).  Secure Shell is
a replacement for rlogin and rsh.  It seamlessly encrypts all communications,
provides improved security, and has useful new features.


INSTALLATION

For most machines and configurations, the following is all you need.

  ./configure
  make
  make install

The source is written in ANSI C, and requires an ANSI C compiler or GCC.
A copy of GCC is available on all major FTP sites (e.g., in 
ftp:/prep.ai.mit.edu/pub/gnu).

You may also want to create the /etc/ssh_known_hosts for your site and update
it periodically.  See the manual page for make-ssh-known-hosts on how to
do this easily.  The file format is documented on the sshd manual page.


CONFIGURATION OPTIONS

The package comes with an Autoconf-generated configure script.  The
script accepts several options
 All standard options, including:
  --prefix=PREFIX	where to install files (default: subdirs of /usr/local)
  --exec_prefix=PREFIX	where to install executables (default: same as prefix)
  --srcdir=DIR		find sources in DIR (default: where configure is)
 Specific options:
  --with-rsh=PATH	Use rsh specified by PATH when needed
  --with-path=PATH	Default path to pass to user shell.
  --with-rsaref		Usa rsaref2 from rsaref2 subdirectory
  --without-idea	Don't include IDEA.
  --with-securid[=PATH] Include support for General Dynamics SecurID card.
  --enable-warnings	Adds -Wall to CFLAGS if using gcc.

You may also want to configure the following variables:
  CC=compiler		specify name of the C compiler (default: gcc or cc)
  CFLAGS=flags		specify flags to C compiler (default: -O -g or just -O)
  LDFLAGS=flags		specify flags to linker (default: none)

Alternate values can be given to configure in the environment, e.g.:
  CC=xcc CFLAGS="-O2" LDFLAGS="-L/lib/zzz" ./configure
(Note that if you have already configured, and later decide to give
some values on the command line, you may need to say "make distclean"
before reconfiguring.)


CONFIGURATION FILES

The server has a configuration file /etc/sshd_config, which specifies the
permitted authentication methods, hosts, port number, etc.  The defaults are
acceptable for most sites, but you may want to check this file.  Its format
is documented on the sshd manual page.

The client reads a configuration file /etc/ssh_config, which gives
site-wide defaults for various options.  Options in this file can be
overridden by per-user configuration files.  The file is documented on
the ssh manual page.


MAKEFILE

The Makefile is generated from Makefile.in by running configure.  It supports
the following targets:
  all: 		compile everything
  install:	install in $exec_prefix/bin and $prefix/man/man1.
  uninstall:	remove installed files
  clean:	remove object files and executables
  distclean:	remove anything not in the distribution


PORTABILITY

This software has been used at least in the following environments.

	386BSD 0.1; i386
	AIX 3.2.5, 4.1; RS6000, PowerPC
	BSD/OS 1.1; i486
	BSD/386 1.1; i386
	ConvexOS 10.1; Convex
	DGUX 5.4R2.10; DGUX
	FreeBSD 1.x, 2.0; Pentium
	HPUX 9.0x; HPPA
	IRIX 5.2, 5.3; SGI Indy
	IRIX 6.0.1; Mips-R8000
	Linux 1.2.8 Slackware 2.1.0; i486
	Mach3; Mips
	Mach3/Lites; i386
	NetBSD 1.0A; Pentium
	OSF/1 3.0, 3.2, 3.2a; Alpha
	Solaris 2.3, 2.4; Sparc
	Sony NEWS-OS 3.3 (BSD 4.3); m68k
	SunOS 4.1.2, 4.1.3, 4.1.4; Sparc
	Ultrix x.x; Mips

Please report back any other environments where you have used this,
and send back any patches you had to do so that they can be integrated
to the distribution.  The proper address is ssh-bugs@cs.hut.fi.
Always remember to mention the ssh version number and machine type in
your bug reports.  Please include also the output of the -v option
from the client side, and the output of the -d option from the server,
if applicable.

Not all compilers work in all environments.  If you have problems, try
compiling with gcc-2.7.  *** SPARC NOTE: gcc-2.7.0 appears to generate
bad code on Sparc (Solaris 2.3) when compiling without -O.  Try
gcc-2.6.3 or compile with -O. ***


COMPILING WITH RSAREF2

If you are using ssh in the United States, you may want to use the
RSAREF2 library from RSADSI.  This may make it legal to use ssh
without a separate license for non-commercial purposes.  RSAREF2 is
not included in the distribution; however, it is available on any
major ftp site around the world (e.g.,
ftp://ftp.funet.fi/pub/crypt/cryptography/asymmetric/rsa/rsaref2.tar.gz).
The RSAREF2 distribution should be unpacked into "rsaref2" subdirectory
in the ssh distribution directory (a symbolic link to rsaref2 is not
sufficient).  Configure should be given the --with-rsaref option.

Using RSAREF outside the United States is not recommended and only
causes legal complications.

RSAREF2 does not work for large key sizes (> 1024).  This may be the
problem if you get "RSAPrivateDecrypt failed".

On alpha, one should edit rsaref2/source/global.h, and make UINT4
"unsigned int" instead of "unsigned long int".


STARTING THE SERVER

The server should be started at boot from /etc/rc or equivalent.  It
need not be given any arguments; however, an optional "-b bits" flag
may be used to specify RSA key size (default is 768).  Key sizes less
than 512 can be broken; larger key sizes generally mean more security
but require more time to generate and use.  1024 bits is secure for
any practical time with current technology.

The server is not started using inetd, because it needs to generate
the RSA key before serving the connection, and this can take about a
minute on slower machines.  On a fast machine, and small (breakable)
key size (< 512 bits) it may be feasible to start the server from
inetd on every connection.  The server must be given "-i" flag if
started from inetd.


REPLACING RLOGIN AND RSH

This software has been designed so that it can be installed with the
names rlogin, rsh, and rcp, and it will use the Secure Shell
protocol whenever the remote machine supports it, and will
automatically execute rlogin/rsh (after displaying a warning that
there is no encryption) if the remote host does not support Secure
Shell.

Rlogin/rsh replacement is done as follows:
  ./configure --with-rsh=RSH-PATH --program-transform-name='s/^s/r/'
  make install

where RSH-PATH is the complete pathname of the real rsh program.  (You
may want to copy the old rsh program to a suitable location).

This will create links for rlogin, rsh, and rcp.  If you are
installing them in the same directory where rlogin etc. normally are
(e.g., /usr/bin), you must first move the original programs to some
other directory (e.g., /usr/lib/rsh).

When doing this, you should also build a file containing the host keys of all
machines in your organization, and copy this file to /etc/ssh_known_hosts
on every machine.  This will make .rhosts and /etc/hosts.equiv authentication
work for users without any changes to the user configuration, but will be
much more secure than conventional .rhosts and /etc/hosts.equiv authentication.
This will also protect the users against router attacks where someone (perhaps
remotely) reconfigures the routers to direct connections to a certain host
to a different machine, which can then grab any passwords which the user
types thinking he/she is connected to the real machine.


CLIENT SUID ROOT, SERVER RUN AS ROOT

This package installs two programs that need special privileges.  Ssh
is the client program, and it is by default installed as suid root,
because it needs to create a privileged port in order to use .rhosts
files for authentication.  If it is not installed as suid root, it will
still be usable, but .rhosts authentication will not be available.  Also, the
private host key file is readable by root only.

Sshd is the daemon that listens for connections.  It should preferably
be run as root, because it is by normally listening on a privileged
port, and it needs to be able to do setuid(), update utmp, chown ptys
etc. when a user logs in.  If it is not run as root, explicit "-p
port" option must be given to specify an alternate port (same port
must also be specified for clients), "-h host_key_file_path" must be
given to specify an alternate host key file, and it cannot be used to
log in as any other user than the user running it (because it cannot
call setuid()).  Also, if your system uses shadow passwords, password
authentication will not work when running as someone else than root.

Both the server and the client have been carefully screened for
possible security problems, and are believed to be secure.  However,
there can be no guarantee.  If you find any problems, please report
them immediately.


COMMON PROBLEMS

This section lists some common installation problems.

Shadow passwords

  There are many different shadow password schemes.  Ssh currently recognizes
  and supports many of them; however, there are probably still many that
  it does not understand.  This may not be visible at compile time.
  If your system uses shadow passwords, and password authentication does not
  work even if sshd is running as root, this is probably your problem.
  Please contact the author if this happens.  Code to recognize (configure.in)
  and use (auth-password.c) the shadow password mechanism on new systems
  is highly welcome.

login.c does not compile, or logging of logins does not work properly

  Mechanisms for updating wtmp, utmp, lastlog, and similar mechanisms
  are not standardized.  Ssh substitutes many of the functions of the 
  conventional login program.  These functions are implemented in login.c.
  You may need to modify this file to make it work on exotic systems.
  Please send any modifications and bug fixes back to the author for inclusion
  in the distribution.  If you just want to try ssh, and cannot get this file
  to compile, if is safe to define all of the functions as empty; however,
  in that case logins will not be logged.

Sshd does not start or dies immediately

  The easiest thing to do is to give the -d option to sshd.  It will
  then send debugging output to stderr (and syslog).  The -d option
  also has other side effects, e.g. the daemon will not fork and will
  only serve a single connection before exiting.  However, it is very
  useful for debugging problems.

  Sshd sends debugging output to the system log.  Check your system
  log (and syslogd configuration) to see why it dies.  One possible
  reason is that your system does not have a proper host key in
  /etc/ssh_host_key.  You can either generate a key with ssh-keygen
  (it is automatically generated by "make install"), or specify an
  alternative key with the -h option to the server.  Another reason
  could be that the port which the server tries to listen is already
  reserved by some other program.

Rhosts authentication does not work

  By default, the server does not accept normal .rhosts or /etc/hosts.equiv
  authentication, because they are fundamentally insecure and can be spoofed
  by anyone with access to the local network.  Rhosts authentication can be
  enabled at compile time by giving the --with-rhosts option to configure.
  
  The preferred alternative is to collect the public host keys of the entire
  site to a file, and copy this to /etc/ssh_known_hosts on every machine in
  the organization running sshd.  This will prevent all IP spoofing attacks
  and provides improved security (provided rshd, rlogind, and rexecd are
  disabled).

Opening connections is too slow

  On very slow machines, encrypting and decrypting the session key may
  be too slow.  For example, on a heavily loaded sun3 it took
  several minutes to log in with the default key sizes.  When we changed it
  to use shorter host key (512 bits) and server key (384 bits),
  login time dropped to about a second.  A symptom of this problem is
  that "ssh -v hostname" waits for a long time after printing "Sent
  encrypted session key". 

  Shorter host keys can be generated with "ssh-keygen -b 512", giving
  /etc/ssh_host_key as the file in which to save the key (with empty
  passphrase).  The server key size can be specified with the -b
  option on sshd command line (typically, in /etc/rc.local).  The
  server must be restarted for changes to take effect.

The program complains "Could not set controlling tty" or something similar

  There are many different styles of pseudo ttys.  Ssh currently
  supports about five different styles (plus variations of them).  It
  is quite possible that there are more variations, some of which are
  not supported by existing code.  Fixing the problem may require
  adding new code in pty.c and configure.in.  You are encouraged to
  write the needed code and send a patch to the author, or at least
  report the problem.

General problem solving

  The client has -v option, which sends verbose output to stdout.  It
  is very helpful in solving problems.

  The server has -d option, which causes it to send verbose debugging
  output to system log and stderr.  This option also causes the server
  to only serve a single connection and not fork, which helps debugging.


REPORTING PROBLEMS

Please report any bugs, problems, and enhancements to
ssh-bugs@cs.hut.fi.

Copyright (c) 1995 Tatu Ylonen <ylo@cs.hut.fi>, Espoo, Finland.
